Model UDL Assignment
NOTE: This is a rough attempt to at least document all of the reasonable places to
put the mulitple of the three: who, what, and why in a lesson plan to
at least think of the easy mutliple entries
•	Filing
o	Recognition Assessments
	True/False
	Multiple Choice
	Matching
o	Substitute alternative for written assignment
	Clay models
	Posters
	Panoramas
	Collections

•	Brainstorm preparations
	Small groups
	Ask advancing students to try a solve a more difficult problem
	Ask for help: how can we model multiplying two whole numbers?
o	Lesson objectives
	Multiply whole numbers
	Divide whole numbers
	When given a multiplication product and one factor, decide the second factor
	When given a number divided by another number, decide the last number
	Describe how multiplication and division are related
o	Academic language
	Product
	Multiply
	Divide
	Terms
	Algebra
o	Supplies
	Each student should have a portable white board and marker
	Class set of ten cubes
	At least 100 one cubes
	For the teacher, a white board and/or document camera
•	UDL Factors
o	Note: Here I am attempting to locate the likely regular UDL adaptations that I would encounter on a regular basis. This is more a template of what areas UDL might connect and have a contributing hand in more robust preparations.
o	Barriers likely to be in place
	Difficulties in understanding the basic problem
	Not being able to count past 10
o	Multiple Means of Representation
	Graphic organizer
	Ensure that video is close captioned
	Students who are visually impaired should be consider
	Supplement with visual aids
	Ensure that goals, outcomes, and assessment are clearly described
	Practice problems and solutions
	Connect lesson to material students already know
	Use illustrations in addition to student white boards
	Have ELD posters with current academic language clearly visible
	Clarify meaning of symbols and images
	Model procedures, guided practice and then release
	Constantly scan for frustrated or upset students
	Minimize distractions in the room for the high concentration portions of the lesson
	Give formative feedback, especially at the beginning of the lesson
•	Make informed use the feedback when deciding to break into small groups, or re-teach
o	Multiple Means of Engagement
	For review of material, consider asking students to provide new word problems
	Collaboration opportunities should be explored
	Encourage students with differing points to self-reflect on their learning experience
	Consider adding game elements such as points for teams answering first
	Perhaps small group settings (for lagging or even advancing students) can be considered
	Class discussions as appropriate
	Maintain the class dynamics so that all students are valued and appreciated
	Guide students through goal setting activities
	If appropriate, hand rubrics out for the day’s activities
	Fun Challenge: The Vice Principal comes in and announces that the cafeteria ladies are trapped in an escape room and need our help in solving one of their problems. Who will volunteer? Maybe a free snack is appropriate!
	Start class with a warm smile and engaged looks throughout the day
	Create a world problem that makes our lesson that much more relevant
	Ask, why is this skill important?
	Consider alterative seating, even special chair/desk groupings?
	Consider a starting video to focus the scope of the lesson?
	When asking questions at beginning say “no hands” so that all have a chance to think through
	If students are frustrated
•	Assign mindfulness practice
•	Help them to chunk the material into smaller pieces
•	Ask them to reflect on a previous topic that was frustrating
o	Multiple Means of Action and Expression
	Allow the option for students to create alternative forms of work to be handed in
•	Picture instead of text
•	Poem instead of formula
	Allow kinesthetic students with privilege of moving or changing manipulatives
	Consider adding support for scaffolded instruction
	Provide access to rubrics for self-review/assessment
	Alternative media for class work
	Physical model presentation
	Newly created problems
o	Guidelines
	1
•	Consider alternative modalities for information
	1.3
•	Have descriptive text available for those unable to access videos
o	Checkpoints
	7.1
•	Perhaps a small reward to which over small group finishes the entire lesson correctly, first?
	9.2
•	Facilitate personal copying skills and strategies
	6.2
•	Provide options for perception
	1.3
•	Offer alternatives for visual information
	2.1
•	Clarify vocabulary and symbols
	2.5
•	Illustrate through multiple media
	7.3
•	Minimize threats and distractions
•	Keep the class on a regular schedule, minimal disruptions and regular routines
•	Involve all students in the activities
1.	List the standard you are responsible for.
1.	CA CCSS.MATH.CONTENT.3OA.A4
2.	Domain: Operations and Algebraic Thinking”
3.	Cluster: Understand properties of multiplication and the relationship between multiplication and division.
4.	Standard: Determine the unknown whole number in a multiplication or division equation relating three whole numbers. For example, determine the unknown number that makes the equation true in each of the equations 8 x ? = 48, 5 = ? / 3, 6 X 6 = ?
2.	Describe, in detail, an activity you will use to teach the concept.
1.	To start, I will “active prior knowledge” by demonstrating with ten frames how can multiply two whole numbers together and find the product. For example, I use the terms 8 and 6; ? = 8 X 6
2.	By showing 8 groups of 6 (or 6 groups of 8) what is the total number of one cubes?
3.	Also, I would use this portion as a means of reminding students who perhaps had issues with this earlier, or the lesson did not “resonate” with their learning abilities.
3.	Write a learning objective for the activity.
1.	By the end of the lesson, students will be able to multiply two whole numbers to get a known product and compare to the correct answer. Optional: use the found term and the other term to calculate the product.
4.	Briefly discuss how you will meet the needs of all learners using this activity.
1.	I will model the lesson to all students using math manipulatives; for the equation 8 X ? = 48, I will have blocks of 8 cubes; I will demonstrate multiplying two whole numbers as adding multiple groups of 8 cubes. One group of 8 cubes is 8; two groups of 8 cubes are (and will add them up together as a class), etc.
2.	For the advancing students, I will model with a ten frame, but filled up with cubes representing on of the whole numbers. For 8 X ? = 48, I will start with one ten frame (with 8 cubes), then two ten frames (making 16), etc.
3.	I would expect that roughly 70 % of students would quickly grasp the lesson; as a remedial approach, pair some of the advancing students with the handful who are having issues understanding.
5.	Discuss how you will know that your students are successful in meeting the learning objective (i.e. some type of assessment).
1.	I will first “activate prior knowledge” by modeling 2 X 2, then 2 X 3, etc. I will ask for “fist of agreement”, i.e., a closed fist meaning “I don’t know”, and all five fingers signifying “Yes!”
2.	After the entire class has had an opportunity to practice with the class, I would hand a simple work sheet for everyone to demonstrate their understanding (formative assessment).
Use the third grade math content standard that matches the first letter of your first name:

Operations and Algebraic Thinking
Represent and solve problems involving multiplication and division
4: Determine the unknown whole number in a multiplication or division equation relating three whole numbers. For example, determine the unknown number that makes the equation true in each of the equations 8 X ? = 48, 5 = ? + 3, 6 * 6 = ?
P-T: Represent and solve problems involving multiplication and division. 4. Determine the unknown whole number in a multiplication or division equation relating three whole numbers. For example, determine the unknown number that makes the equation true in each of the equations 8 × ? = 48, 5 =  ÷ 3, 6 × 6 = ?.

